At this point you should have virtual
box installed for your operating system.
The next thing we're going to do is download CentOS from centos.org.
We'll click on "get centos now" or whatever the link to the download section
of the website happens to be at the time you watch this video.
You'll notice you have a few options here.
The DVD ISO is perfect for what we're about to do.
This DVD image contains all the packages that can be installed using the installer.
So we're going to click on "DVD ISO" to download it.
The previous page and let's talk about
the everything ISO and the minimal ISO.
So the everything I so contains the
complete set of packages for CentOS.
You would use this image if you wanted to create a local mirror of CentOS packages.
For example
Finally, the Minimal ISO will allow you to install a very basic CentOS system.
If you use this image it won't install a graphical user environment.
If you wanted a graphical user environment, and almost any other type of software,
you would have to install it manually after the initial OS install.
So again, the best choice for us is the DVD ISO.
Once we have our ISO Downloaded, we're ready to create a virtual machine.
Go ahead and start the virtualbox application.
Create a new container or virtual machine for our CentOS operating system installation.
You can see here that it asks you for a few bits of information.
I'm going to name it centosdesktop.
As I typed that in, virtualbox automatically selected Linux as the type and RedHat as the version.
When we're doing a CentOS installation
now remember that Santos is a red hat.
linux derivative so that's the version.
We're going to tell virtualbox that were
using virtualbox didn't automatically select the type
or version for you you can simply
click on it and select the type from the
list which again is linux or the version
here which is red hat 64-bit
going to go ahead and click continue and go to the
next step. Here it's saying the
recommended memory sizes a thousand
twenty four megabytes which is one
gigabyte. You can see that in my system
here i have 16384 megabytes or 16
gigabytes about, so I'm going to
dedicate about half my resources to this virtual machine.
So, I'll use 8192 MB or 8 gigabytes.
maybe you could devote to gig to your
virtual machine etcera. So i'll click
continue to continue and what we need to
do now is create a hard disk of virtual
hard disk for this system.
Go ahead and click create at this step
you want to choose the hard disk type
we're going to leave it at the default
of vdi a virtualbox disk image. At this
point we have two choices one is
dynamically allocated and the other is
fixed size. Primary concern is
about preserving this space or using as
little disk space as possible, choose Dynamically allocated.
However, if you're looking for better performance, use Fixed Size.
I'm going to go ahead and
use dynamically allocated press continue here.
Now we need to specify a size
for our disc i'm going to specify 100
gigabytes for my hard drive,
although 8 gigabytes is sufficient to
install CentOS to. I like having some
additional space so that's why I'm going
with a larger size. So we'll click create
so now we have our virtual machine.
Next, we need to install CentOS. Let's
power on the virtual machine to do that
you can either click start at the top or
right click and press start. Like I'm
going to do I'll do a normal start.
Now it's going to ask us for a disk image to boot this system from and what you want
to do is click on the folder icon and
navigate to the location that you
downloaded the ISO from centos dot org.
So i'll click on that and click here
click open and now we'll hit start to boot the system.
You'll notice that you
have a couple of options.
The "Check media and install CentOS" is highlight. What
this will do is make sure that the image
you are using isn't corrupted. The ISO
image that you downloaded from centos.
I recommend going with the default
here so press ENTER to start the
installation. I'll click inside the
virtual machine and then press enter.
You'll see that the system starts to
boot and then it starts checking the media.
The ISO image that were using
to do the installation.
Here is the first install screen. There's
a button at the bottom of this
installation screen that I can't even
see. I want to make sure that I see
everything that centos is showing me, so
I'm going to put this virtual machine
into scale mode. What this will do is fit
the virtual machine screen inside my
virtualbox window. So I can make the
window as small or as large as I want,
and I can still see the entire screen of
the virtual machine. Since we've already
clicked inside the virtual machine
window, the virtual machine has control
over the mouse and keyboard. So anything
that I type, or any mouse movements that
I make are going to the virtual machine.
To get control back to the whole system,
we need to press the host key which is a
special key reserved for Virtualbox actions.
By default the host key is the
left Command Key on a Mac, on Windows it's the right control key.
Even if it's something different, you can always tell
what the host key is by looking in the
bottom right of your VM window. I'm on a
Mac and so you can see that Left
followed by the Command symbol is
displayed in the bottom right of the VM
window. When I press that designated
host key, the control of the mouse and
keyboard are returned to the host computer.
Now I can go to the view menu and select on Scaled Mode.
On a Windows system you'll go to the View menu that is in the menu bar at the top of your VM window and select Scaled Mode.
VirtualBox will tell you how to get out of this scaled mode if you want to.
It says press Host+C and it tells you what the host key is set to.
I'm going to go ahead and click on
switch to switch to scale mode.
Now I can see the entire screen of the virtual machine in my window so now i'm just
going to increase the size of the window
so I can really see what's going on inside the virtual machine.
At this point
i'll click in the virtual machine and
now the virtual machine has control of
my mouse and keyboard so now i'm just
going to mouse over the continue button
and click to start the installation.
On this installation summary screen we can go through each item if we want and make
some changes for example the date and
time is set to America's new york for me
if you want to change this you would
simply click on that and then select
your place in the world and then click
done. So i'm just going to leave it as
America's new york and i'll click done
and again the same thing with the
keyboard and the language support. The
one thing that we really need to change
is the software selection so make sure
to click on this so what we want is a
graphical user environment, so let's
click on a gnome desktop here and then
there are some add-ons to the right
these are optional. However, there is one
that I want you to click because we're
going to be using some of the software
that gets included. There in just a few
minutes, so head on over to the right
side of the screen and make sure that
the development tools are check. So when
we've done that we'll just go up here
and click done and then the installation
destination. Will click on that and then
you can see that it automatically
selects our virtual hard disk. So when
we're doing this installation it may say
that we're going to overwrite everything.
On the hard disk well it's going to
overwrite everything on the virtual hard
disk and that is just fine, so everything
looks good on the screen.There's nothing
to change you just need to go in here firm, so we'll click done.
So now it gives us the option to begin installation and
that's what we're going to do will click
that button.
On the screen you can do two things here
the first thing is set a root password
which will go ahead and do will click on
that and then you're going to set a
password for the root account and we'll
be talking about the root account later
in this course. So just go ahead and pick
a password and be sure to remember that password.
Then we'll click on done,
now if you choose a weak password it
will make you press done twice to
confirm that you're going with a less
secure password. So in any case will
click done, so now we have the option of
creating a user and we want to go ahead
and do that as well so we'll just mouse
over to the right there and click on
user creation. So here is where you'll
enter your information for your personal
account on this system, so i'm going to
enter my name and you want to make sure
that you check this box is make this
user administrator checking, that box
will make it easier for you to do things
on the system such as install software
and do other kind of administrative
tasks like that will be covering that
later in this course as well. So now we
need to supply a password. Then
that's all we need to do on this screen.
Will click done and then we'll just wait
for centos to perform its installation.
Now that the main installation is done
we need to go ahead and reboot the
system and finish up the installation. So
go ahead and click on the reboot button now.
When the system first boots you may need
to accept the license information. So
right here we just hit one and press
enter and now will enter 2 to accept the
license agreement. Now we just press
C to continue and then now that the
license information has been accepted
will see an x + 7 ! there beside number
one license information. So we're
done with this so we can have C to
continue and complete our first boot
into centos. Now that the system is
booted up i'm going to go ahead and
login as myself here.
When you first login, will ask you to confirm your language I'm English so that's already
selected and i'll click next, here we'll
also ask you about your keyboard layout
and English US is checked and that's
what i'm using some and click next and
now we're all set the installation is
complete. So i'll just click start using
centos now. Now this getting started
screen is displayed and so you can take
some time and read through some of the
documentation and watch some of the
videos for example and so at this point
the installation is really complete. So
our job would be done right here if
we're running on physical hardware such
as a desktop a laptop or server.
However, since we're using a virtual
machine we need to perform one
additional step. That additional step is
to install some software that helps
linux understand. The virtual hardware
that it's working with and that piece of
software is called virtualbox guest
additions. Now what we need to do is
insert the guest additions CD image and
install those guest additions. So i'm
going to press the host key to get
control of the keyboard and mouse and
now i'm going to go to the devices menu
and click insert guest additions CD image.
You'll see a pop-up that ask you
if you'd like to run the software that's
on this image and we do so i'm going to
click inside the virtual machine here to
get the mouse control back to the
virtual machine. I'm going to hover over
run and click it.
Now we need to enter our password for
the account since we have administrative
privileges that we specified during the
installation. We can do things as such as
install software which is what we're
doing out so i'll just go ahead and
enter in my password. Click on
authenticate and now the guest additions
will be installed guest additions
requires that the development tools were
installed and if you remember when we
selected the software for the
installation. We check the checkbox
beside development tools so if you have
problem installing the guest additions
you need to make sure that, that was
checked during your installation. So now
that the installation is done we can
press return to close the window, so i'm
going to go ahead and X out of the
getting started and i'm actually going
to reboot the virtual machine to show
you what happens when you have guest
additions install. So I click on the
right part of the screen at the power
button here and i'll just do a restart.
Go ahead and again, so i'm
going to press the host
key again to get control of the mouse
and i'm going to go to the menu here and
then I'm going to click view and take us
out of scale mode. So I'm just going to
hit scale mode there and then the screen
will snap to a smaller size and so
what's interesting now is the resolution
is better. So now I can take the screen
and drag it to how whatever size I want
and now the graphics and the desktop.
Look a lot better than they did on the
first insulation and in that scale mode.
So one of the things that the virtualbox
guest additions does is provide a better
display experience for you.
Okay that wraps up the manual
installation of centos